
General Recognition Theory
==========================

General Recognition Theory is a multi-dimensional version of signal detection
theory (Thurstone, 1927; Green & Swets, 1966). It was developed by
psychologists (Ashby & Townsend, 1986; Ashby & Gott, 1988) to study the human
categorization process. 

General Recognition Theory (hereafter GRT) is a model developed by Ashby and
collaborators (Ashby & Townsend, 1986; Ashby & Gott, 1988) as a Psychologically
realistic thoery of how humans might derive boundaries through stimulus space
for the purpose of categorization. It is essentially a multi-dimensional
version of signal detection theory [`wiki
<https://secure.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/wiki/Signal_detection_theory>`_].

It is commonly used as an analysis method to infer the decision boundary
participants were using after they have labeled stimuli in a categorization
experiment.


What is this doing here?
-----------------------

I have forked a lovely Matlab toollbox put together by Leola Alfonso-Reese. She
has it hosted on `her website
<http://www-rohan.sdsu.edu/~leola/toolbox.html>`_. I was working on moving it
over to Python for my own research, and realized I should make my efforts
public. All files are marked internally with copyright information, and global
copyright information about the Matlab toolkit can be found in
``matlab/GRT_README.m``. You should assume all Matlab files are copyrighted by
her and subject to the terms of her readme file. I have made minimal changes to
the Matlab files, focusing instead on porting the code over to Python. Work by
me (all the Python files) is copyrighted by me, but I assent to copying for
personal or academic reasons. I do not assent to any copying or publication for
any commercial reason without my express written consent. I also make no claim
that the work provide here is useful for any particular purpose, and am not
responsible for any ill that may befall you as a result of using it.

If you are a copyright holder of any material on this site and are displeased
with the attribution provided here or wish that any material be taken down,
please contact me and I will fulfill your request as quickly as possible.





